MPGU 150th anniversary
MPGU 150th anniversary
MPGU 150th anniversary
Greetings from partners
2022-11-08_12-58-11
2022-11-08_12-58-39
2022-11-02_13-01-07
2022-10-25_16-36-40
2022-10-25_15-58-05
2022-10-25_14-32-38
2022-10-25_14-33-08
2022-10-25_14-15-15
2022-10-25_15-53-18
2022-10-25_16-14-52
2022-11-02_13-09-01
2022-11-02_13-08-26
2022-11-02_13-11-01
334fc9d696d29d7a78a993ca0cabd014 (1)
Greetings from Du Yongjun, President of the UNESCO Association of Gansu Province
«For 150 years, MPGU has been a leader of pedagogical education in Russia and the CIS countries. Taking into account the outstanding achievements of the university in the field of music education, the first, and currently the only one in the world, UNESCO Chair «Musical art and education throughout the life”, which is a model and deserves special congratulations.
Since 2017, the UNESCO Association of Gansu Province has been actively cooperating with MPGU. As part of the joint work, several large projects were organized, such as the internship of the university management in China, as well as the internship of a group of students under the Silk Road program.
Greetings from Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of China to Russia Zhang Hanhui
Dear Alexey Vladimirovich!
On behalf of all the employees of the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in the Russian Federation and on my own behalf, I cordially congratulate you and the faculty, students, graduate students and staff of Moscow Pedagogical State  University on the 150th anniversary of its foundation.
Over the past time, a huge number of graduates have left the walls of the Moscow State Pedagogical University, many of whom have become famous scientists and teachers.  professors, senior managers, employees of research institutes.  Today, the University is rightfully considered one of the largest pedagogical Russian universities.  occupying leading positions in the training of highly qualified specialists for educational institutions not only in Russia, but also for countries around the world, including.  China.  It is gratifying to note that MPGU pays special attention to cooperation with Chinese universities and develops fruitful cooperation with 19 Chinese educational institutions both in the joint training of highly qualified specialists and in scientific and pedagogical research.  The leading role of your university in the Association of Pedagogical Universities of China and Russia deserves special appreciation.
Today, Sino-Russian relations have reached the highest level in the history of their development of a comprehensive partnership and strategic interaction, entering a new era — and at the same time, the potential for further development is still great. Under these conditions, it is important to pay special attention to bilateral cooperation in the humanitarian field. I am confident that you will continue to promote the strengthening of scientific and educational ties between our countries. I sincerely wish you, all teachers and students!  I wish you further development, happiness, health and all the best!
With deep respect,
Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of China to Russia
Zhang Hanhui
Chongqing Professional College of Urban Management
sent MPGU its congratulations on the occasion of the anniversary:
Over the past 150 years, your university has always adhered to the pursuit of excellence, the pursuit of truth and innovation, and the innovation and pursuit of excellence, the spirit, has nurtured a large number of social elites and outstanding talents, and achieved many remarkable achievements. The 150th anniversary is not only a glorious moment to showcase the accomplishments of your school, but also a new starting point for the future. Happy holiday!
Greetings from the Member of the Council of Natural Science and Mathematics of the University of Belgrade, professor  Alexander Lipkowski
I have the honor and special pleasure on behalf of the Rector of the University of Belgrade Professor Vladan Djokic to show you my respect and congratulate you on the 150th anniversary of the founding of the Moscow Pedagogical
State University.
Alexander Lipkowski
Greetings from honorary professor Wolf Schmidt
Prof.Dr.Alexey Lubkov
Dear Professor Lubkov, dear Alexey!
First of all I sincerely congratulate you to 150th anniversary of MPGU on 1.November2022.
Thank you for calling me the first foreign Professor Emeritus who has established a tradition
to exchange Professors and Students between MPGU and German and other European universities
since 1991. Now I am 84 years old and have still contact with colleagues and students of this time.
They do not forget to inform me about events of their life and I am very happy about this.
As the leading university center for teacher training in Russia and also worldwide I wish you
to accomplish your goals and to maintain your high reputation.
I think of you and all the colleagues on 1th November and wish to see you soon
and remain with deep gratitude.
In Gedanken und mit meinem ganzen Herzen bin ich bei Ihnen!
Sincerely  yours
Wolf Schmidt
Greetings from MPGU graduates from Uzbekistan
«I shall never forget a friend if I met him in Moscow»
All of us, graduates of MPGU, united by one thing – we studied in Moscow, at the main university of the USSR, a university that trained the best specialists in the country, specialists of the society for N1. There hasn’t been, is not and never will be a specialty more important than a TEACHER! It is the people of this profession that lay the foundation of society. The stronger the foundation, the more sustainable the society!
MPGU graduates from Uzbekistan never miss a chance to meet. And a meeting of 1979 graduates was held in the city of Tashkent, where friends of other graduates were invited on October 1. That day in Uzbekistan is celebrated as «Mentor’s Day» and is a non-working. Representatives of 8 regions and the Autonomous Republic of Karakalpakstan came to the meeting. There were 20 people at this time but the number of participants couldn’t affect its quality. The meeting was scheduled in the center of Tashkent, near the theater named after A. Navoi. There also were taken the first individual photos of participants and group photos. The next stage of the meeting was a visit to a restaurant.
«Feast» was a success. We remembered moments from student time and of course, beloved teachers who put their souls into us. We, the graduates of the Uzbekistan, were luckier than anyone else because of our teachers! They taught us not only as students, first of all they saw a personality in each of us, they loved us, taught us, protected us as their own children. We are immensely grateful to each of them for their work!
Well, and of course, how can be a «feast» without songs? We remembered and sang songs of student years. Songs that had WORDS, a melody, a meaning, a life.
Then, the participants of the meeting went for a walk in the park «Tashkent City». During the walk, the participants of the meeting continued talking about their memories.
At the end of the meeting there was an improvised interview with each participant. Each of the participants wished everyone good health and expressed hope for new meetings…
See you soon…
Lyubov Achelova, whose maiden name was Baranova, a graduate of the Faculty of Philology of the Moscow State Pedagogical Institute, dedicated a poem to the meeting in Tashkent, which took place on 01.10.2022. Now she lives in Novosibirsk.
News
Pedagogical State University has celebrated its 150th anniversary. As part of the solemn ceremony, the teachers were presented with gratitude from the Government of Russia, as well as departmental awards. Deputy Prime Minister of Russia Tatyana Golikova
congratulated the pedagogical university
on its anniversary, toured the iconic places in the main building of MPGU, talked with future teachers and their professors.
Minister of Education of Russia Sergey Kravtsov  also congratulated our university and noted that thanks to the creative, constructive work of the teaching staff, several generations of reputable scientists who worked within the walls of the university, MPGU has become one of the leading universities in the country.
Rector’s meetings with members of the Public Council of MPGU
As part of the celebrations dedicated to the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the Moscow Pedagogical State University, rector A.V. Lubkov met with representatives of universities — members of the Public Council of MPGU, the basic organization of the CIS member states for the training of teachers.
Among the guests of honor are the rector of the Belarusian State Pedagogical University named after Maxim Tank Zhuk A.I., the rector of the Kyrgyz State University named after I. Arabaev Abdraeva A.T., as well as the Vice-Rector for International Relations of the Tajik Pedagogical University named after S. Aini Khudoydodzoda F. B.
The project «150 MPGU scientists: works from the collection of the University Library»
The Library of the Moscow State Pedagogical University presents the project “150 Scientists of the Moscow State Pedagogical University: Works from the Collection of the Library of the University”.
From October 17 to October 21, videos representing the scientific and pedagogical activities of prominent scientists of the university were published on the MPGU
YouTube channel
Welcome to the
Video tour
of the Main building of Moscow State Pedagogical University
Students
irtual exhibition
of creative works: 150th anniversary of MPGU
Announcements
© Moscow Pedagogical State University, 2026
Terms and Conditions
Contact information
1/1 M. Pirogovskaya Str., Moscow, 119991, Russian Federation
Tel.: +7 499 246 87 62
Licence ААА N 002457
Registration N 2344 — 20.12.2011