Rector of MPGU Alexey V. Lubkov took part in an educational forum in China
Rector of MPGU Alexey V. Lubkov took part in an educational forum in China
3011 1
3011 2
3011 3
3011 4
3011 5
3011 6
3011 7
3011 10
3011 9
3011 13
3011 11
3011 12
3011 14
3011 15
3011 16
3011 17
3011 18
3011 19
On November 30, as part of his visit to China, the rector of Moscow Pedagogical State University Alexey V. Lubkov, together with the Moscow State University delegation, held several meetings and took part in the forum “Digital Transformation and Reform of Classroom Education.” On November 30, the rector of Moscow Pedagogical State University, academician of the Russian Academy of Education Alexey V. Lubkov, met with the Secretary of the Party Committee of the Working Commission on Education of the Provincial Committee of the CPC of Shaanxi Province, the Minister of Education of Shaanxi Province, Mr. Liu Jian Lin.
During the meeting, the Minister paid special attention to Russian-Chinese cooperation and the unique educational project between MPGU and WNU, which has been successfully implemented for almost ten years. Discussion of joint activities of universities at the ministry level indicates the importance of work in this direction. At the end of the bilateral meeting, an agreement was signed to expand cooperation between MPGU and WPU.
At the Shenyang Normal University in Xi’an, the rector of Moscow Pedagogical State University Alexey V. Lubkov met with the rector of the Shenyang Normal University to sign a new cooperation agreement. During the conversation, the idea was raised about the traditional high role of teacher education and the stable development of joint activities, which began several years ago with the signing of the Silk Road Agreement on Pedagogy. Shaanxi Province is the source of red culture, the new China, a base for the exchange of cultures with other countries.
Alexey V. Lubkov noted that contacts have not weakened since then, but only intensified. And the parties have something to say to each other. In particular, in Russia right now, in the Year of the Teacher and Mentor, there is a reform of Russian education. Testing is underway to introduce a national system of education and upbringing, where the emphasis is not on technology, but on spirituality and national values, on the traditions of the people. And we hope, said the rector of MPGU, that this experience will contribute to our joint future, since we are doing the same thing together.
On the same day, the annual meeting within the framework of the activities of the Chinese-Russian Union of Higher Educational Institutions and the forum “Digital Transformation and Reform of Classroom Education” was held in Xi’an at the Shaanxi Normal University.
Speaking here with greetings to its participants, Alexey V. Lubkov noted that without live communication, without a teacher, neither education nor upbringing is fully possible. The human dimension will always be at the forefront of our immersion into the world of digital and artificial intelligence, as President of the Russian Federation V.V. Putin recently noted. There will always be two sides of a single process — artificial intelligence and a person who cannot be replaced or replaced by any machines. And here the experience of the PRC, which has advanced further than many others in the process of interaction between these two parties, is extremely important. In addition, Russia has now left the Bologna system, and today Moscow Pedagogical State University is one of the platforms for reform of higher education based on traditional values. In his report at a bilateral meeting of the union’s member universities, the rector of MPGU also drew attention to the fact that “is already a gathering point, an accumulator of those very important, not only professional, but sociocultural practices that allow us to talk about our union as a very important factor development of national education systems both in the People’s Republic of China and in the Russian Federation.»
Director of the Institute for the Development of Digital Education, Professor, Doctor of Science Oksana Gordienko made a plenary report at the forum, and reports from leading scientists from China and the Russian Federation were also presented. The breakout sessions were productive, and the results were summed up at the bilateral meeting — colleagues discussed the results of the work, plans for the near future and agreed on a meeting next year in Russia.
Show comments
Обсуждение
Комментариев пока нет
© Moscow Pedagogical State University, 2026
Terms and Conditions
Contact information
1/1 M. Pirogovskaya Str., Moscow, 119991, Russian Federation
Tel.: +7 499 246 87 62
Licence ААА N 002457
Registration N 2344 — 20.12.2011