Visit of the delegation of Nanjing University (PRC) to MPGU
Visit of the delegation of Nanjing University (PRC) to MPGU
On October 26, 2023, the Moscow Pedagogical State University was visited by a delegation from Nanjing University led by the Chairman of the Council of the Communist Party of China of the University, Tan Tenyu. On the part of Moscow Pedagogical State University, the delegation welcoming the guests was headed by Rector A.V. Lubkov.
Tan Tenyu in his welcoming speech emphasized the importance of developing cooperation both between the two countries (this year marked the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Russia and China) and between universities (which has been carried out for 25 years) and expressed confidence in the need for it further deepening.
Currently, exchanges have been established between universities within the framework of the academic mobility program. In the autumn semester of the 2023–2024 academic year, 2 students from Nanjing University are studying at MPGU, and 5 students from MPGU are studying in Nanjing.
The parties prepared presentations about their universities, providing information about their history and modernity. Both universities recently celebrated their anniversaries. Representatives of MPGU told how interaction with Chinese students and partners works in the Office of International Relations, the Russian-Chinese Coordination and Methodological Center and in educational institutes.
First Vice-Rector V.P. Dronov noted a similar history of the development of the two universities, noting, however, that Nanjing University went from a pedagogical to a classical university, while MPGU went in the opposite direction.
During the meeting, possible prospects for further cooperation were discussed: joint educational programs, cultural and educational practices, Olympiads, etc. Particular attention was paid to the possible expansion of subject areas of cooperation. Today, interaction is mainly carried out in the linguistic sphere. Cooperation in the field of history and geography, as well as digitalization of education, is also of interest.
In his concluding remarks, Tan Tenyu outlined several important areas of possible cooperation between universities: scholarship support for teachers from Moscow Pedagogical State University and Nanjing University, who could come to the partner university for a period from several weeks to several months, as well as support for scientific research.
Show comments
Обсуждение
Комментариев пока нет
© Moscow Pedagogical State University, 2026
Terms and Conditions
Contact information
1/1 M. Pirogovskaya Str., Moscow, 119991, Russian Federation
Tel.: +7 499 246 87 62
Licence ААА N 002457
Registration N 2344 — 20.12.2011