The visit of Northwest Minzu University delegation to Moscow Pedagogical State University
The visit of Northwest Minzu University delegation to Moscow Pedagogical State University
On September 25, 2024, the delegation of Northwest Minzu University headed by the Vice-President Mr. Yusufujiang Aimaiti arrived in Moscow. Moscow Pedagogical State University’s Party, was chaired by Victor P. Dronov, acting First Vice-Rector of our University.
Northwest Mintzu University, formerly known as the Northwest University for Nationalities, is the first higher education institution for national minorities founded in China after the establishment of the People’s Republic of China, under the direct authority of the State Ethnic Affairs Commission of China.
The meeting began with a sightseeing tour around the main building of MPGU, which is an object of federal cultural heritage site. Negotiations were the next part of the meeting, during which the prospects for further cooperation were determined: academic mobility of students and teachers; summer or winter camps, and other areas of cooperation. Chinese colleagues expressed a deep interest in books on the history of China stored in the library of MPGU.
Both Parties expressed a desire to extend the cooperation agreement. The administration of MPGU has received an oral invitation to visit the Northwest Minzu University, which will celebrate the 75th anniversary of its foundation in 2025.
In conclusion, the Parties expressed confidence that the development of partnership relations will contribute to the exchange of knowledge and experience between universities of Russia and China, the strengthening of our friendship.
The official visit of the Northwest Minzu University’s delegation to Moscow Pedagogical State University was held in a friendly atmosphere and created new horizons for possible cooperation between our universities.
Show comments
Обсуждение
Комментариев пока нет
© Moscow Pedagogical State University, 2026
Terms and Conditions
Contact information
1/1 M. Pirogovskaya Str., Moscow, 119991, Russian Federation
Tel.: +7 499 246 87 62
Licence ААА N 002457
Registration N 2344 — 20.12.2011