Students of Moscow Pedagogical State University and leading universities in Ethiopia held a thematic session for the International Day for Monuments and Sites
News
Students of Moscow Pedagogical State University and leading universities in Ethiopia held a thematic session for the International Day for Monuments and Sites
Рубрик нет
МПГУ в рейтингах
Students of Moscow Pedagogical State University and leading universities in Ethiopia held a thematic session for the International Day for Monuments and Sites
Дата публикации - 22 / 04 / 2026
1. 17.04.2026
3. 17.04.2026
4. 17.04.2026
6. 17.04.2026
8. 17.04.2026
10. 17.04.2026
11. 17.04.2026
13. 17.04.2026
15. 17.04.2026
17. 17.04.2026
18. 17.04.2026
19. 17.04.2026
20. 17.04.2026
21. 17.04.2026
22. 17.04.2026
23
On April 17, 2026, the UNESCO Chair «International education and the integration of migrants» and the Faculty of Regional Studies and Ethnocultural Education of the Institute of Social and Humanitarian Education of Moscow Pedagogical State University held the next International Thematic Session «UNESCO World Heritage Sites.» The session was attended by teachers and students from IPSU and four universities in Ethiopia. The meeting took place within the framework of the UNITVIN international cooperation program and is timed to coincide with the International Day for Monuments and Sites, which the world community celebrates on April 18.
The series of meetings touch on the preservation of UNESCO World Heritage sites, more than 100 of which are located in Africa. This is the third meeting in the framework of the project «Intercultural Dialogue and Partnership in Education,» which the UNESCO Chair of MPGU is implementing with partners from the countries of the Global South. In 2025, meetings were held with students from universities in Egypt and Bangladesh. The purpose of the sessions is to educate young people in the preservation and popularization of the world historical, cultural and natural heritage, to promote the development of their intercultural competence. Online sessions are held in English.
The project is in the focus of the Russian Commission for UNESCO, the National offices for UNESCO of the participating countries, in accordance with the UNESCO mandate to promote inclusive, intercultural dialogue between generations on heritage conservation and sustainable development. The topic is a vector of international cooperation in the modern world and affects the widest segments of the population around the globe. It is gratifying that during 2025 the project was posted among the leading initiatives of UNESCO chairs on the UNITVIN page on the Organization’s website.
The success of the meeting with Ethiopian university students was largely due to Mr. Alemu Getahun Hailu, Secretary General of the Ethiopian National Office for UNESCO, who personally coordinated the preparatory phase from Ethiopia. In his welcoming speech, he noted the universal importance of cultural heritage, the concern for the preservation of which meets the fundamental principles of UNESCO. «World Heritage is not just monuments or landscapes, it is a living reminder of the preservation through centuries of creativity of past generations,» said Ademu Getahun, emphasizing the need for mutual development of principles for rational management of civilizational heritage.
The initiative was welcomed by Mrs. Ksenia Gaverdovskaya, Senior Counselor to the Secretariat of the Commission of the Russian Federation for UNESCO, Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as Mrs. Oksana Novikova, Executive Secretary of the Coordination Committee of UNESCO Chairs of the Russia. Presenting St. Petersburg at the meeting, Oksana recalled that the center of the northern capital of Russia has been a UNESCO World Cultural Heritage Site for 25 years, and also noted that joint meetings of students and schoolchildren from different countries are extremely important in the framework of cultural diplomacy.
Dr. Gardachew Worku, President of the Injibara University (Awi, Amhara National Regional State), addressed the meeting with a welcoming speech from the academic community of Ethiopia. He stressed the importance of cultural exchange between the youth of the two countries, and also mentioned the regional intangible heritage – a special form of horse riding, which is waiting for the approval of UNESCO status.
In turn, Dr. Elena Omelchenko, Dean of the Faculty of Regional Studies and Ethnocultural Education at Moscow Pedagogical State University, addressed the audience: «This is a wonderful initiative. All of us, not only students, but also university teachers, want to learn more about the cultural heritage of Africa in general and Ethiopia in particular.» She conveyed words of support from the Rector of Moscow Pedagogical State University, Head of the UNESO Chair, Professor Alexei Lubkov. Mr. Yury Goryachev, Academic Director of the MPGU UNESCO Chair, also attended the meeting.
The session was moderated by Marina Krivenkaya, coordinator of the UNESCO Chair and Director of the Center for Regional Studies and Humanitarian and Educational Cooperation at Moscow Pedagogical State University. Opening a series of student presentations, she thanked the representatives of Ethiopia for their interest in the topic, active participation in the session and recalled that in this way the agreements reached in Addis Ababa in the fall of 2024 are being implemented. Then, during the Forum of UNESCO Chairs and Partners «Transforming knowledge for Africa’s future» in Addis Ababa, the Russian delegation, which included representatives of the MPGU UNESCO Chair, visited the National Commission for UNESCO Ethiopia and saw that concern for the country’s cultural heritage and participation in this youth are in the focus of Ethiopian colleagues.
Traditionally, the meeting with teachers and students from Ethiopia consisted of two sessions. In the first part, master’s students of the Faculty of Regional Studies and Ethnocultural Education, studying «Teaching and Popularizing the Russian Language, Culture, and History of Russia among Foreign Citizens,» made presentation reports on UNESCO World Cultural Heritage sites in Russia. In the second part, students from Ethiopia presented reports on the cultural and natural heritage of their country and the problems associated with its management.
The MPGU students chose objects of intangible cultural heritage to meet with their Ethiopian colleagues, and in their presentations noted not only their historical significance, but also the relevance of modern reading. So, Mrs. Margarita Vakhrina in her report «The Universe on a Palm: from Medieval Icons to Avant-Garde Visions» led listeners through Russian art of different centuries and emphasized that each of us, like medieval ktitors, acts as a trustee, taking care of the preservation of cultural monuments.
Mrs. Victoria Dyakonova introduced the participants to the folklore and fairy tales of the Russian North, speaking with the theme «Sadko: The Legendary Musician of Novgorod». Having told about the hero of the Russian epics of the Novgorod cycle, the talented guslyar Sadko, Victoria presented the artistic incarnations of the epic plot in the opera by N. Rimsky-Korsakov, the painting by I. Repin, sketches for the famous ballet productions of S. Diaghelev. A logical continuation of the topic was the presentation of Mrs. Victoria Martes «Russian Ballet,» dedicated to one of the brightest «pearls» of Russian culture. Victoria offered an excursion into the history of ballet, introduced the most famous dancers and listed what makes Russian ballet a unique phenomenon of world culture. The internationally recognizable music of Tchaikovsky and Prokofiev, accompanying immortal productions, made this part of the meeting truly unforgettable.
On the Ethiopian side, the students in turn spoke about their country’s tangible and intangible cultural heritage. Ms. Mekdes Tilahun Yihun, a student of Injibara University, presented the report «The Living Heritage Paradigm: Integrating Community Stewardship with Modern Conservation», especially stressing the importance of building a complete system of management of cultural heritage sites. Mr. Fentahun Endele Lashiteh (Injibara University) in the report «Cross-Continental Perspectives: Sustainable Tourism and the Economic Vitality of World Heritage Sites» focused on economic models that, in his opinion, can attract tourists and thereby make Ethiopia’s cultural events better known in the world. Visiting folklore festivals where traditional songs are performed is the subject of his special attention, and Fentahun confirmed his involvement in the process by performing a traditional Ethiopian melody.
Ms. Ribka Tewodreos (Addis Ababa Science and Technology University) in the report «Digital Custodianship: Leveraging Emerging Tech for Heritage Preservation in Developing Contexts» focused on how technology influences cultural preservation practices. Ribka introduced those present to the Kingdom of Aksum, one of the oldest empires in modern Ethiopia, and then showed how to use digital analogues to introduce its heritage to the modern inhabitants of the planet.
Students from Ethiopia prepared more reports and were ready to talk about a variety of cultural monuments of their country. For example, Ms. Hawi Demoz (Addis Ababa University) chose the Lalibela Church, carved from stone and still keeping many secrets, for her presentation. Unfortunately, the time limit did not allow everyone to speak, but the large number of responses to the session indicates its possible continuation as a series of meetings. Also, following the results of thematic student sessions, all speakers were invited to joint publication in Russian in the «Ethnodialogues» Information and Analytical Almanac.
The meeting ended with a mutual invitation to visit each other, as well as an expression of readiness to continue communication between students of Russia and Ethiopia – not only on this topic, but also on everything that interests young people of the two countries. The professors welcomed the initiative and hoped that the session would launch a long and successful partnership between universities in Russia and Ethiopia in research and educational initiatives.
«This session was a remarkable example of international dialogue and cooperation. We explored different aspects of heritage preservation – from tangible monuments to intangible traditions, from community efforts to digital innovation. I hope this cooperation will continue in various forms, strengthening ties between our peoples and universities,» said Mr. Alemu Getahun, summing up the meeting.
We thank our Ethiopian colleagues for responding to the initiative of the UNESCO Chair of Moscow Pedagogical State University, for an interesting meeting, the desire to develop cooperation. We express our deep gratitude to the Commission of the Russian Federation for UNESCO and the Ethiopian National Office for UNESCO for supporting the projects of the UNESCO Chair of the Moscow Pedagogical State University in the field of ethnocultural education of youth, multicultural education and international humanitarian cooperation.
All meeting materials will be published on the project page
https://mpgu.su/mezhkulturnyj-partnerstvo-obrazovanii/
Marina Krivenkaya
Show comments
Обсуждение
Комментариев пока нет
Reform and innovation of teacher education in the era of artificial intelligence
27 / 12 / 2021
On December 2, 2021 within the framework of the work of the Chinese-Russian Union of Higher Pedagogical Institutions, a scientific seminar «Reform and innovation of teacher education in the era of artificial intelligence» was held, in which heads...
International Students join MPGU’s Student Day Celebrations
30 / 01 / 2026
International students took part in the "Tatiana's Day 2026 at MPGU" festive event.
MPGU Hosts «New Year with Buddy Club» for International Students
25 / 12 / 2025
The "New Year with Buddy Club" event for international students was held at the Faculty of Humanities building on the 22nd of December. Students had the opportunity to enjoy the winter holiday atmosphere and take part in engaging interactive activities.
MPGU Delegation visits the People’s Republic of China
16 / 12 / 2025
From December 4 to 12, 2025, MPGU delegation led by Vice-Rector for Public Relations Tatyana Vladimirova paid a working visit to educational institutions in the People's Republic of China.
Rector of Moscow Pedagogical State University Alexey Lubkov has joined the renewed Presidential Council for Civil Society and Human Rights
10 / 12 / 2025
Rector of Moscow Pedagogical State University Alexey Lubkov has joined the renewed Presidential Council for Civil Society and Human Rights. Russian President Vladimir Putin signed the corresponding decree on December 8, 2025.
Moscow Pedagogical State University takes part in the III Forum of Rectors of specialized Associations of Russian and Chinese Universities «Russia–China Cooperation: Education, Economy, Digitalisation»
07 / 12 / 2025
The forum was held in Novosibirsk on December 3–5 and brought together over 40 university representatives from the secretariats of 15 specialised associations.
Students from Moscow Pedagogical State University and Chittagong University, Bangladesh, held a thematic session on the cultural heritage sites of the two countries
08 / 10 / 2025
On October 3, 2025, the UNESCO Chair «International Education and Integration of the Migrants» and the Faculty of Regional Studies and Ethnocultural Education of the Institute of Social and Humanitarian Education at Moscow Pedagogical State University (Moscow, Russia), together with...
Students of UNESCO chairs of Moscow Pedagogical State University and Helwan University of Cairo held a thematic session dedicated to World Heritage Day
23 / 04 / 2025
The international theme session «UNESCO World Heritage Sites» was held on April 17, 2025, by the UNESCO Chair on «International Education and the Integration of Migrants» of Moscow Pedagogical State University (Moscow, Russia) and the UNESCO Chair on «Integrating Intercultural...
Specialists of the Moscow Pedagogical State University taught mini-lessons for Ethiopian schoolchildren on the World Teachers’ Day
18 / 10 / 2024
On the 3rd of October 2024, the World Teachers’ Day, the Moscow Pedagogical State University (MPGU) delegation, participating in the International Forum of UNESCO Chairs and Partners “Transforming Knowledge for Africa’s Future” (30.09-01.10.2024, Ethiopia), visited a State Meskerem Secondary School...
The visit of Northwest Minzu University delegation to Moscow Pedagogical State University
03 / 10 / 2024
On September 25, 2024, the delegation of Northwest Minzu University headed by the Vice-President Mr. Yusufujiang Aimaiti arrived in Moscow. Moscow Pedagogical State University’s Party, was chaired by Victor P. Dronov, acting First Vice-Rector of our University.
Visit of Jiangsu Normal University to MPGU
01 / 03 / 2024
On February 21, 2024, a delegation from Jiangsu Normal University (JNU) visited Moscow Pedagogical State University. The Chinese partners, led by Rector Zhou Zhuguang, were warmly welcomed by first vice-rector Victor Dronov.
On December 1-3, 2023, the rector of MPGU Alexey V. Lubkov visited Sichuan Normal University in Chengdu (PRC)
18 / 12 / 2023
MPGU is implementing a joint educational project with Sichuan in the field of Painting. This specialty was first tested by our universities as a joint training program. During the implementation of the project, almost 500 Chinese students graduated and received...
Rector of MPGU Alexey V. Lubkov took part in an educational forum in China
18 / 12 / 2023
On November 30, as part of his visit to China, the rector of Moscow Pedagogical State University Alexey V. Lubkov, together with the Moscow State University delegation, held several meetings and took part in the forum “Digital Transformation and...
Visit of the delegation of Dalian University (PRC) to MPGU
18 / 12 / 2023
On November 27, 2023, representatives of the international center of Dalian University visited Moscow Pedagogical State University. The parties exchanged greetings, introduced their universities and discussed the prospects for possible cooperation, in particular in the implementation of joint bachelor’s programs, student...
Visit of the delegation of Nanjing University (PRC) to MPGU
10 / 11 / 2023
On October 26, 2023, the Moscow Pedagogical State University was visited by a delegation from Nanjing University led by the Chairman of the Council of the Communist Party of China of the University, Tan Tenyu. On the part of Moscow...
The delegation of the Institute of Foreign Languages of Beihang University paid an official visit to MPGU
20 / 10 / 2023
On October 10, 2023, a representative delegation of the Institute of Foreign Languages of Beihang University (Beijing University of Astronautics and Aeronautics) headed by Mr. Xiao Hong, Secretary of the Party Committee of the Institute of Foreign Languages, visited Moscow...
The Weinan Normal University (China) paid an official visit to MPGU
04 / 10 / 2023
On September 18–21, 2023, a delegation of the Weinan Normal University (WPU), headed by Mr. Zhuo Yu, Secretary of the Party Committee of the WPU, paid an official visit to Moscow. This university is a long-time partner of MPGU; back...
MPGU visited a delegation of the Government of Zhaoqing (China)
13 / 09 / 2023
The MPGU’s new academic year begins with international participation. On September 1st, a delegation from the government of Zhaoqing, China visited MPGU. The first vice rector Viktor Pavlovich Dronov warmly welcomed the Chinese delegation headed by vice mayor of the...
International competition of the best practices of teaching Russian as a non-native (foreign) language in pedagogical universities of the CIS member states and the People’s Republic of China
24 / 08 / 2023
Moscow Pedagogical State University, as the basic organization for the training of teachers of the CIS countries, together with the Eurasian Association of Pedagogical Universities (hereinafter – EAPU) and the Russian-Chinese Union of Higher Pedagogical Educational Institutions, holds an International...
Alexey Lubkov: Press conference in TASS
22 / 08 / 2023
On August 21, 2023, TASS hosted a full-time press conference dedicated to summing up the results of the admission campaign to leading Russian universities in 2023. Rector of the Moscow Pedagogical State University Alexey Lubkov, Rector...
Meeting of the Assistant to the President of Russia Vladimir Medinsky with the author’s team of the textbook of social studies
14 / 08 / 2023
On August 10, 2023, the Moscow Pedagogical State University hosted a meeting of the authors of the textbook of social studies with Vladimir Medinsky, Assistant to the President of the Russian Federation, Chairman of the Interdepartmental Commission on...
Students of pedagogical colleges will start working in schools and kindergartens
31 / 07 / 2023
A law has come into force allowing students of the last courses of pedagogical colleges to officially work in kindergartens and primary school classes. Previously, students of pedagogical universities had a similar right. Experts generally positively assess the innovation, although...
Tatiana Golikova and Sergey Kravtsov awarded diplomas with honors to graduates of Russian pedagogical universities at MPGU
14 / 07 / 2023
Moscow Pedagogical State University recently hosted a prestigious ceremony honoring graduates from Russian pedagogical universities. Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova and Minister of Education Sergey Kravtsov presented diplomas to signify the successful completion of higher education....
Awarding the leadership of the MPGU with state awards of the Russian Federation
14 / 07 / 2023
On July 5, 2023, the Rector of MPGU, Academician of the Russian Academy of Sciences Alexey Lubkov and the University management took part in a visiting meeting of the leadership of the Ministry of Enlightenment of Russia...
Derbent branch of MPGU widely celebrated its 25th anniversary!
07 / 07 / 2023
On July 01, the Derbent branch of the MPGU celebrated its 25th anniversary with planned festivities. The plenary session commenced with a greeting from Ruslan Dzhangirovich Huseynov, the Director of the Derbent branch. Huseynov emphasized the importance...
MPGU was the first to open a Quantorium
07 / 07 / 2023
On July 3, 2023, Academician Alexey Lubkov, Rector of MPGU, informed the Russian Ministry of Education that the Pedagogical Technopark of the University «Quantorium» had opened and started operating. The Technopark, established at Moscow Padagogical State University, is...
Rector of MPGU A.V. Lubkov took part in the International Russian-Chinese Pedagogical Forum
07 / 07 / 2023
On March 18, 2023, an INTERNATIONAL RUSSIAN-CHINESE PEDAGOGICAL FORUM was held dedicated to the 200th anniversary of the birth of Konstantin Dmitrievich Ushinsky, one of the founders of scientific pedagogy in Russia.  More than 200 representatives of Russian and...
MPGU and the International Forum «Shaping the Future»
09 / 06 / 2023
On June 8-9, the city of Kazan hosted the International Forum of Ministers of Education, titled «Shaping the Future.» The forum brought together representatives from various countries including Russia, Egypt, Qatar, Brazil, CAR, Syrian Arab Republic, UAE, Pakistan,...
Rector of MPGU Alexey Lubkov took part in the international conference in Baku
04 / 05 / 2023
Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, recently hosted an international conference commemorating the 100th anniversary of Heydar Aliyev, the National Leader of Azerbaijan. The event, titled «Topical Issues of Azerbaijani Studies,» included an opening ceremony and a plenary session....
Anniversary of MPGU: during its work, the university has trained 250 thousand teachers
02 / 11 / 2022
Moscow Pedagogical State University has celebrated its 150th anniversary. As part of the solemn ceremony, the teachers were presented with gratitude from the Government of Russia, as well as departmental awards. Deputy Prime Minister of Russia Tatyana Golikova congratulated the...
Rector’s greetings. Moscow Pedagogical State University is 150 years old!
02 / 11 / 2022
Dear colleagues, dear friends! So the long-awaited day has come. Moscow Pedagogical State University turns 150 years old. We work and study at a unique university with a long and glorious history. For each of us, this is a reason...
Rector’s meetings with members of the Public Council of MPGU
01 / 11 / 2022
As part of the celebrations dedicated to the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the Moscow Pedagogical State University, rector A.V. Lubkov met with representatives of universities — members of the Public Council of MPGU, the basic organization of the...
New “height” of MPGU YouTube channel
26 / 08 / 2022
In August 2022, the MPGU YouTube channel reached a new “height” – the number of its subscribers exceeded 190,000 people, and the number of views reached almost 36 million! And we are sure that this is not the limit. Recall...
The Tenth International Exhibition-Fair “Russian Education. Tajikistan-2022″
26 / 08 / 2022
By the support of Rossotrudnichestvo in Tajikistan, from June 10 to June 11 in Dushanbe the Tenth International Exhibition-Fair “Russian Education. Tajikistan-2022" was held.
Meeting  with the representatives of Administration of the Government of the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic
26 / 08 / 2022
On May 31, on the initiative of the Government of the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic, a meeting  between MPGU representatives and Administration of the Government of the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic was held. The purpose of this action was to support Pridnestrovian...
Expert Session «Technologies for the international positioning of Russia in the field of promoting Russian language and education»
26 / 08 / 2022
On May 24, 2022, Deputy Director of the Institute of Social Studies and Humanities for Study, Dean of the Faculty of Regional Studies and Ethno-Cultural Education of MPGU E.A. Omelchenko, Deputy head of the International Relations Office O.A. Morozova and Head...
MPGU Uzbek graduates celebrate graduation anniversary
24 / 03 / 2022
On March 19, 2022 in Tashkemnt, the capital of Uzbekistan, MPGU Uzbek graduates of the Faculty of Philology  had an celebratory gathering to celebrate the upcoming 150 anniversary of MPGU. About 80 people from all parts of Uzbekistan...
MPGU congratulates new Rector of Weinan Normal University
24 / 03 / 2022
MPGU received an official letter from Pr. Zhang Shouhua on his taking on the mantle of the new Weinan Normal University Rector. WNU is a long-term MPGU partner. Universities have been implementing joint educational programs for teaching Chinese...
Online meeting with INSPÉ de l’académie de Versaille
02 / 03 / 2022
On February 21, 2022 representatives of MPGU and School of education académie de Versailles (INSPÉ de l’académie de Versaille, France) held online negotiations. At the meeting final stages of preparation of the application for Erasmus + program were discussed.  The...
Happy Spring Festival 2022!
28 / 01 / 2022
Dear colleagues and students, on the occasion of saying goodbye to the old year and welcoming the new year 2022 we would like to greet  you and convey my best wishes to all foreign colleges and universities. In 2021,...
Representatives of the French Embassy in Moscow and Inspé of Versailles Academy visited MPGU
12 / 01 / 2022
On December 15-16, 2021 a series of meetings with representatives of the French Embassy in Moscow and School of education académie de Versailles (Inspé of Versailles) took place. On December 15, MPGU was visited by Attaché for cooperation in the...
Seasons Greetings: Happy 2022!
30 / 12 / 2021
Moscow Pedagogical state University wishes you, dear students, colleagues and partners, a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year 2022. We hope that you each get the opportunity to gain strength in something that fills you with energy and hope for...
Current state of the system of lifelong pedagogical education and the prospects for its integration development
27 / 12 / 2021
On November 25, 2021  International Pedagogical Forum «Current State of the System of Continuous Pedagogical Education and the Prospects of its Integration Development» was held in an online format, timed to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the...
Dialogue with the French Embassy in Russia
23 / 12 / 2021
On November 15, 2021 an online meeting of representatives of the Moscow Pedagogical State  University with the attaché of the French Embassy took place, dedicated to the results and prospects of cooperation between the Moscow State Pedagogical University...
Countering anti-Semitism, intolerance and discrimination through education conference
25 / 11 / 2021
On November 3-4, 2021 the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR), the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) held a Regional Conference for...
CIS Educational Space as a Strategic Source of Sustainable Development
24 / 11 / 2021
On October 28, 2021 the 6th Congress of Teachers and Educators of the CIS (Commonwealth of Independent States) «CIS Educational Space as a Strategic Source of Sustainable Development» was held at the National Library of Tajikistan. Also, within the...
Forum on Modern methods of teaching Russian language in educational institutions of Syria
24 / 11 / 2021
Within the framework of bilateral cooperation between the Ministry of Education of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Education of the Syrian Arab Republic, during Moscow International Forum «Religion and Peace» at  MPGU a Russian-Syrian round table was...
MPGU Rector’s comment published on University World News
18 / 10 / 2021
According to the article dated May 25, 2021 on University World News, a new bill, which simplifies the stay of foreign students in Russia, and allows them to stay on for three years after graduation, is...
Delegation from Saudi Arabia visited MPGU
18 / 10 / 2021
On October 13, 2021 Cultural Attaché of the Embassy of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Ali Albarrak paid a visit to the Moscow Pedagogical State University. Participants discussed education of students from Saudi Arabia at MPGU, as well as...
Russia and Germany: Discourse of Identities — Variations and Transformations, part 2
11 / 10 / 2021
On September 25, 2021 an online discussion forum for graduates of German educational programs «Russia and Germany: Discourse of Identities — Variations and Transformations» terminated. One of its co-organizers was  Moscow Pedagogical State University. Tradition of holding interdisciplinary conferences...
Russia and Germany: Discourse of Identities — Variations and Transformations
08 / 10 / 2021
On September 23, 2021 an online discussion forum for graduates of German educational programs «Russia and Germany: Discourse of Identities — Variations and Transformations» was launched. To participate in the discussion forum organized by the University of Würzburg and the German-Russian...
University of Clermont Auvergne opens travel journal competition
03 / 09 / 2021
. The University of Clermont Auvergne (UCA) release the 7th international student travel journal competition.   Open to all persons enrolled in a higher education institution in France or abroad, the idea is to transcribe an experience lived during a...
MPGU celebrates the Day of Knowledge
03 / 09 / 2021
Dear colleagues, students, teachers, employees of our university! I sincerely congratulate you on our wonderful professional holiday — the Day of Knowledge! We are entering a new academic year, and a significant and very important date for all...
Rector Alexey Lubkov on the Global Smart Education Conference 2021
20 / 08 / 2021
From August 18 to August 20, 2021 the Global Smart Education Conference took place in Beijing. It followed the topic "SMART-education and the Future of Education" and was organized by Beijing Normal University, one of the key partners of MPGU, UNESCO Institute for Information Technologies in Education, with support of the Ministry of Education in cooperation with international organizations and other higher educational institutions.
IRO and international conferences
12 / 07 / 2021
June 2021 was marked not only by abnormal temperatures, but also by a large number of international events. MPGU International Relations Office (IRO) took an active part in a series of videoconferences and webinars dedicated to...
Vladimir Putin congratulated Xi Jinping on the 100th anniversary of the Communist party
12 / 07 / 2021
Russian president Vladimir Putin  congratulated the General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China Xi Junping «This significant date for your country is met by impressive success in economic, social, scientific and technical progress....
Online meeing with University of Peradeniya
09 / 07 / 2021
On June 29, 2021 by the initiative of the Embassy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka MPGU participated in an online meeting on future scientific and educational cooperation with representatives of University of Peradeniya. Sri Lankan Ambassador Extraorinary and...
Education without borders
08 / 07 / 2021
At the end of a busy academic year a series of online seminars on regional studies took place organized by Moscow Pedagogical State University and the University of Leipzig. Within the framework of the German language course...
MPGU Buddy Club volunteered in international sport championship
07 / 07 / 2021
In spring 2021 long-awaited European World cup in gymnastics took place. Due to the current epidemiological situation dates of the championship were postponed several times. Luckily this sping it was decided to organize competition in 2 categories...
«One year into COVID: Prioritizing education recovery to avoid a generational catastrophe»
23 / 06 / 2021
As the world enters a second year living with the COVID-19 pandemic, half of the global student population is still affected by full or partial school closures. To mobilize and support learning continuity, UNESCO established the Global...
© Moscow Pedagogical State University, 2026
Terms and Conditions
Contact information
1/1 M. Pirogovskaya Str., Moscow, 119991, Russian Federation
Tel.: +7 499 246 87 62
Licence ААА N 002457
Registration N 2344 — 20.12.2011