The delegation of the Institute of Foreign Languages of Beihang University paid an official visit to MPGU
The delegation of the Institute of Foreign Languages of Beihang University paid an official visit to MPGU
On October 10, 2023, a representative delegation of the Institute of Foreign Languages of Beihang University (Beijing University of Astronautics and Aeronautics) headed by Mr. Xiao Hong, Secretary of the Party Committee of the Institute of Foreign Languages, visited Moscow Pedagogical State University on an official visit. The delegation also included the Deputy Head of the Department for Complex Issues of Postgraduate Studies. The meeting was opened by the First Vice-Rector of Moscow Pedagogical State University V.P. Dronov. On behalf of MPGU, the meeting was attended by the heads of the Office of International Relations, the Institute of Philology, the Institute for the Development of Digital Education and the Russian-Chinese Coordination and Methodological Center.
Issues of possible cooperation with the Institute of Philology during the negotiations, as well as the Institute for the Development of Digital Education, were discussed. Agreements were reached on the development of interaction in the field of scientific and cultural exchanges, academic mobility; the guests were interested in the idea of Chinese students participating in summer and winter language practices; received a response from Chinese colleagues with the opportunity to become participants and co-organizers of various online events — from cultural and educational to scientific, regularly held at MPGU at a high level; special attention was paid to joint educational projects.
The official visit of the delegation of the Institute of Foreign Languages of Beihang University took place in a warm atmosphere of mutual understanding; the parties outlined the high importance of developing cooperation, outlining points of common interest, and expressed hope for the beginning of the implementation of the plan in the near future.
photo 1
photo 2
photo 3
photo 4
photo 5
Show comments
Обсуждение
Комментариев пока нет
© Moscow Pedagogical State University, 2026
Terms and Conditions
Contact information
1/1 M. Pirogovskaya Str., Moscow, 119991, Russian Federation
Tel.: +7 499 246 87 62
Licence ААА N 002457
Registration N 2344 — 20.12.2011